# Music Curation and Analytics 2018

<p>This is a dataset produced for the DMIS Music Curation Analytics course at the University of Glasgow.</p>

 <p>I chose to construct a dataset concerning the works of Italian pianist, Ludovico Einaudi . While Einaudi has composed many pieces, I chose to focus on two specifically chosen pieces because analysing more than two would be beyond the scope of this project. I decided to analyse two pieces which were written over a decade apart. The first piece, ‘I Giorni’, is written for solo piano and was released in 2001. This piece gained huge popularity and hit the UK Top 40 a mere decade later. The second, ‘Discovery at Night’, is a shorter piece written, again, for solo piano and released in 2013. This piece, although not unsuccessful, did not reach the same fame as ‘I Giorni’. As I chose these pieces, my theme developed and became a collection of data concerning two very similar pieces which were born over a decade apart but achieved varying degrees of success. </p>

		<p>There currently lacks a fully comprehensive dataset of Einaudi’s works. This is not unsurprising due to Einaudi’s active state of work which is limited by copyright laws. There are a variety of datasets which offer one or two types of data, but, as far as I am aware, one containing all three does not exist. </p>

		<p>Most of the notated data of Einaudi’s works are available through his self-published music. I had access to ‘Discovery at Night’ because I had purchased the book ‘In A Time Lapse’ which contained this piece. However, with the development of user generated content through Web 2.0, much of Einaudi’s music has been notated by individuals and published on open source platforms such as MuseScore. This is where I sourced the music for ‘I Giorni’. </p>

		<p>Acoustic data for Einaudi’s works is widely available to purchase or stream via music stores, online music stores, streaming services and is also freely available to users via YouTube  for example. YouTube also contains many variations of Einaudi’s music by other artists. </p>

		<p>Descriptive data does exist with a lot of the notated and acoustic data. However, acoustic data only tends to contain non-technical descriptive data such as the song name, the genre, the date of release etc. Similarly, notated data might contain more information, but this often focuses more on the musical elements such as the key, instrumentation and pitch. While this might too contain information such as the song name, it is unlikely to contain descriptive data such as genre or date of release, particularly in the printed forms. </p>

		<p>In terms of analysis, these datasets are reluctant to provide much. Their purpose is more one-sided and tend to serve a purpose to customers and users. For example, streaming service Spotify  provides the acoustic data with the purpose of allowing customers to listen to the tracks, not necessarily for analysis. There lacks a dataset containing notated, descriptive and acoustic data with complementary analysis. While this project will not contain a full dataset or analysis of Einaudi’s works, it will provide an idea.
